you will be given a string and you need to
check if it is a palindrome or not
Using recursion so let us take two different palindrome strings
and form the logic to solve this problem
The first one is the odd length string Madam and
the next is the even length string
ACCA
So how will we check If it is a palindrom
we will take the start and end index characters
and check whether both of them are equal
If equal we moved to the next pair by incrementing
the Start Index and decrementing the end index
So what will be the base case for an odd
length string in an odd length string If we continue
to do this palindrom check the start and END
index will meet at the middle index
So when start is equal to end we can stop
the process
But in the case of an even length string the
Start and END Index will not meet at the same
index
So what will be the base case of even length
strings in even length strings If all the pairs of
characters are equal at some point the START Index will
cross the end index and that is the base case
for even length string that is when start is greater
than end
Then we can stop the process
So the overall base case of this problem is when
start is greater than or equal to end
Here start is equal to end is for odd length
strings and start greater than end for even length strings
So when start index is greater than or equal to
end we can stop the recursive call and return true
Let us see an example
We have the string ACCA so passed the string its Start index
and end index into the function checked the base case
if start is greater than or equal to end and
it is not so check
If the characters had start and end indices
are equal and they are so called the function again
with the string incremented start index and decremented end
index that is start plus one and end minus one
Now here also first check for the base case
and it fails
So check if characters had start and end are the
same and they are so make the next recursive
call Start plus one and end minus one
That is two and one
So in this function when we check the base case
if start is greater than or equal to end it
is true since two is greater than one so we
can stop the process and return one.